9 Jan: Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon
Aging pair of marial arts experts confront danger in the form of a
young upstart. The fight scenes are absolutely fantastic. I didn't
feel much empathy for the characters, but the action and scenery make
it worth seeing.

16 Jan: Blackboards
Teachers with blackboards strapped to their backs wander aimlessly
over the mountains of Iran looking for pupils. Give this a miss.

1 March: Shadow of the Vampire
"Nosferatu actually was a vampire!" is the premise of this beautifully
shot B&W film. Some interesting and scary scenes. Good but not great.

2 April: You can Count on me
Brother comes to stay with sister and her son. Lots of family
interactions. OK but not great.

19 April: Bridget Jones's Diary
All about Bridget and her career and romantic woes. I really enjoyed
this, as I felt I really understood Bridget.

27 April: Bread and Roses
Union organizer in LA tries to get a better deal for the mostly Latin
American immigrant office cleaners. Equally about union organizing and
personal interactions between office workers and romance between
organizer and Maya, a new arrival. Enjoyable.

30 May: A One and a Two
About families in Taiwan. Long and slow, but reasonably enjoyable. 

9 May: 2001 a Space Odyssey
Three episodes. Proto-men discover weapons. VIP goes to investigate
momolith found buried on moon. And the last, most famous one, where
astronauts battle HAL the recalcitrant computer and Dave goes on a
trip. Worth seeing on the big screen at least once in your life.

14 May: The King is Alive
Tour bus breaks down in the African Desert. To pass the time the
tourists practice King Lear. Much animosity between the players. A bit
pretentious, especially at the end, but it left me thinking about various
scenes for days after. 

21 May: The Dish
Cute film about Australian team who relay TV signals from the capsule
heading to the moon. Don't look for any deep meaning here.

25 June: Merci pour les Chocolade
Murder mystery. Some nice camera work, but far too many plot holes. 

2 July: Shrek
Shrek is an orge who joins up with a smart-ass donkey to rescue
princess Fiona from a faraway castle. However, Fiona has a little
secret... This is an amazingly funny movie, definitely worth seeing. 

? July: Tomb Raider
Lara Croft saves the world. Plenty of action, not all that much in the
way of plot. It's good for men who like to ogle well-endowed women,
but has little else to recommend it.

? July: Evolution
Alien craft lands and things start evolving at a breakneck pace out of
the microbes attached to it. Amusing light comedy with some fun
creatures. 

30 July: Together
Swedish movie about a woman who leaves her abusive, often-drunk
husband to go live with hir brother in a commune. Realistic and often
very funny movie about the affects people have on each other. Recommended.

7 Aug: Iron Ladies
A Thai voleyball team composed of gays, transexuals, and transvestites
overcomes all sorts of obstacles to get their big chance at the Thai
national tournament. Light, feel-good movie. 

15 August: Me You Them
A woman in rural Brazil collects several men, not through deceit, but
through absolute honesty. Good music, some atmospheric shots, but
overall not very satisfying. A bit too slow.

28 Aug: Tears of the Black Tiger

A Thai homage/send-up of the cowboy movie. Nicely shot, with
color-drenched sets. In places really funny. The explicitness of the
violence contrasts markedly with the completely absence of sex,
despite there being a strong romantic subtheme to this movie.
Recommended, as long as you can stomach overdone violence.

3 Sept: A Time for Drunken Horses
It's a hard life for Kurds in Iran. 12 year old Ayoub is left as the
head of his family, taking care of smaller sisters and a handicapped
brother. He does his best to provide for them, trying to earn money by
smuggling goods across the border to Iraq. This sounds like it would
be a very depressing movie, but it isn't: what strikes you is the
strength of the characters as they somehow manage to cope with all
that's thrown at them. Recommended.

10 Sept: Moulin Rouge
Young poet gets caught up in the heady world of the Moulin Rouge and
falls in love with the star of the show. There are many hyperactive
visuals that almost make you seasick, many moments of high comedy, and
equal moments of deep tragedy. In my opinion, the mix didn't really
work. It did have some very nice bits, though: the Police song "Roxanne"
done as a tango, and Madonna's "Like a Virgin" as you've never
seen it before.

17 Sept: Le Gout des Autres
Successful businessman and factory owner is married to an interior
decorator whose idea of style is overplump furniture and flower
patterns. He falls for an actress and discovers a new world that he
wants to become a part of. This characters struck me as being very
real. Recommended.

26 Sept: A.I.
David is a robot boy programmed to love unconditioanlly. But what
happens to him when he's rejected by his adopting mother? This is a
film in several parts. Most of these parts are interesting, except for
the last one, which is slow and sickeningly sweet. Interesting but not
great. 

3 Oct: Enigma
Expert code-cracker is called in to repeat his success in cracking a
code. As a computer scientist I'm interested in the code-cracking bit,
but this was giving minimal screen time. Instead we get a romance and
a detective story. The romance aspect of it is OK, but the detective
bit is very unsatisfying, as every step our hero makes is anticipated
by the suave, handsome, slimy secret service man. 

8 Oct: Amelie
Amelie enjoys making others happy, but when she begins to be attracted
to a cute young guy who is also interested in her, she can't quite
bring herself to atually spend any time with the guy to see if her
fantasies can come true. Some very nice camera work and special
effects. A very enjoyable movie.

16 Oct: Mildred Pierce (1945)
Mildred lives for her daughter, who treats her like dirt. Film
beautifully shot in B&W and with some very witty repartee in places,
but the characters are so extreme that I really couldn't believe them.

22 Oct: The Pledge

There's a child killer on the loose and Jack Nicholson as a newly
retired cop has made a pledge to track him down. The next few years of
his life is guided by this, and we watch the effect this obsession has
on him and those around him. This should have been an excellent
character study, but somehow it just didn't grab me. 

29 Oct: The Man Who Wasn't There
Beautifully shot in B&W, this is the story of a barber who, in trying
to get ahead, makes some decisions that slowly tear his life apart. 
Some wryly funny scenes, but I didn't feel for any of the characters
so didn't end up liking it all that much.

7 Nov: The Circle
This film follows several Iranian women who have just gotten out of
prison, as they try their hardest to come back into society, but
everything is against them. I was moved by this, but am very glad I'm
not a woman in Iran.

22 Nov: Ghost World
Teenage girl, just graduated from high school, doesn't know what to do
with her life. So, having no plan, she just does whatever the hell she
feels like at the moment, ending up hurting everyone who cares about
her. Very believable. Recommended. 

28 Nov: Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone
Harry has a reputation that he doesn't really think he can live up
to. But the entire magical world is threatened, and he must act.
The books were fun to read, but the movie version was pretty dull. 
I didn't empathize with any of the characters.

3 Dec: La Villa est Tranquille
Lots of things are happening in Marseilles, people love and live and
try to get by. This film tells several stories which have very little
to do with one another. It was too long and had too many characters
and plots. Eliminating a few of the plots would have made for a better
movie. 

12 Dec: Kandahar
An Afghani woman returns to her country to try to give her sister, who
has stayed behind and who has threatened to commit suicide during the
eclipse, a reason to live. Unfortunately her sister is in Kandahar,
which proves to be very difficult to get to. As we follow her quest we
learn much about life in Afghanistan and the hardships women
especially face there. Recommended. 

? Gohatto
Japanese movie about homosexual love amongst the samurai. The film
looks beautiful and has interesting music, but the actors fail to show
any evidence of the strong emotions they are suposed to be feeling.
And don't tell me that this is just a cultural difference: I've seen
plenty of Japanese movies, and none have been so devoid of emotion as
this one.
